PMM-12902 PMM 3.0.0 Alpha Rel Notes (#1221)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/release-notes/3.0.0_Alpha.md

PMM now integrates Grafana 10.4, which delivers the following important enhancements alongside all the advancements introduced since the previous Grafana 9.2.20 integration.

For the full list of changes included in this update, see [Grafana's 10.4 release blog](https://grafana.com/blog/2024/03/06/grafana-10.4-release-all-the-latest-features/).

### Improved navigation

With the 10.4 update, PMM now includes a revamped header with search, breadcrumbs, and a reorganized menu that groups related tools together, making it easier to navigate PMM's features and find what you need:

![New Dashboard page](../_images/Navigation_Dashboard.png)

### Improved Alerting workflow

Leveraging the new Grafana user interface updates, we've taken the opportunity to refine the workflow for creating alerts from the **Alert Rules** and **Alert Rule Templates** pages.

You'll notice separate, more visible options for creating different types of alert rules, cutting down on unnecessary steps and making it easier to manage various alert rules, templates, and configurations:

![New Alerts rule page](../_images/Grafana_Alerting.png)

### Simplified Administration Settings with Dedicated Menus

> We've made administration settings easier to manage by introducing a new **Administration** menu. This menu brings together all Grafana-related configurations and account management options that were previously scattered across the general **Configuration** section. This change helps administrators locate and manage Grafana-specific settings more efficiently.

Reviewer: Just a note, the "Administration" menu (Merged "Configuratio" and "Server Admin") was introduced by Grafana.

- [PMM-13037](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13037): Launched documentation overhaul with revamped table of contents, refreshed design, and ongoing content enhancements for improved usability and accessibility.

- [PMM-12545](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/12545): Finished transferring DBaaS features to Percona Everest, a standalone solution for easy database deployment and management, seamlessly integrated with PMM for database monitoring.

- [PMM-12940](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12940): Implemented Watchtower which automatically replaces the PMM Docker Server container, simplifying upgrades for Docker, Podman, and OVF/AMI setups.

- [PMM-12523](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12523): PMM Server can now be deployed rootless using Podman, Helm, Docker, Virtual Appliance, or Amazon AWS, enhancing security by eliminating the need for root privileges.

- [PMM-12526](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12526): Replaced API keys with Grafana service accounts for enhanced API authentication, fine-grained access control, and improved logging and security.

> - [PMM-8306](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-8306): Deployed PMM inside rootless containers managed by Podman within AMI and OVF instances, enhancing security and providing a consistent experience across different deployment types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [PMM-8306](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-8306): Deployed PMM as a rootless container managed by Podman within AMI and OVF instances, enhancing security and providing a consistent experience across different deployment types.
```

Reviewer 2: This seems to be more correct.

- Logging of all actions performed, providing better visibility and auditing.
- Easy rotation of credentials that doesn't impact associated applications.

When you install PMM 3.x, any existing API keys will be seamlessly converted to service accounts with corresponding service tokens. For more information about using service accounts in PMM, see [Service accounts authentication](../api/authentication.md).

![Service Accounts page](../_images/Service_Accounts.png)

### More options for deploying PMM rootless

In addition to Podman, PMM Server can also now be deployed rootless with Helm, Docker, Virtual Appliance, or Amazon AWS.

This setup prioritizes security by eliminating the need for root privileges to create, run, and manage containers. Running PMM Server as a non-root user means that you never have to give a user root permission on the host. This adds an extra layer of security, essential for protecting against potential security breaches.

For detailed instructions on deploying rootless PMM, check the [Setting up PMM Server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/index.html#set-up-pmm-server) topic.

> ### Transition to Oracle Linux 9 completed

Reviewer 3: maybe shorten this section to just say - RHEL 7 is dead , so no EL 7 builds, everything on OL9 - as most secured and recent version of OS

With the release of PMM 3, we are completing the transition away from CentOS/RHEL 7-based builds and fully embracing Oracle Linux 9 as the default operating system for PMM-base images. This transition began with PMM 2.38 and is now being finalized for all users, including those who had upgraded from 2.37 and earlier versions using the **PMM Upgrade** option on the Home Dashboard.

By leveraging Oracle Linux 9 as the default operating system, we are ensuring a more stable, updatable and well-maintained operating system for PMM's base images.

## Improved UX

> ### Grafana upgraded to latest version

Reviewer 3: Let's move this section to the bottom of the highlights as this is inherited features 

(I'll additionally review them )

![New Dashboard page](../_images/Navigation_Dashboard.png)

#### Improved Alerting workflow
Leveraging the new Grafana user interface updates, we've taken the opportunity to refine the workflow for creating alerts from the **Alert Rules** and **Alert Rule Templates** pages.

You'll notice separate, more visible options for creating different types of alert rules, cutting down on unnecessary steps and making it easier to manage various alert rules, templates, and configurations:

![New Alerts rule page](../_images/Grafana_Alerting.png)

#### One central location for all Administration settings

All PMM-related configuration and inventory options have been relocated from the **Configuration** section to a unified **Administration** menu.
Grouping all administration-related tools means that you get easier, centralized access to all PMM configuration settings, making it easier to find what you need.

![Administration menu](../_images/Admin_menu.png)

For more details about all the changes coming Grafana v10.4, see [Grafana's release blog](https://grafana.com/blog/2024/03/06/grafana-10.4-release-all-the-latest-features/).

## Enhanced PMM deployment on AMI and OVF environments

> PMM is now deployed inside containers within AMI and OVF instances. These containers operate in a rootless mode and are managed via Podman. This approach significantly increases security for a more robust and secure monitoring of your environments.

Reviewer 4: and provides the same experience across different deployment types

> ## Finalized DBaaS migration to Percona Everest

Reviewer 3: let's add here about seamless integration from everest to PMM when you use pmm for monitoring (this  should be already in latest version of Everest )
